# The Necropolitics of The Transsexual Body; How We Talk About Transsexual existence.
Meditations on the dynamics that affect transsexual individuals in a cissexist society, how their bodies are controlled in both life and death.

## Introduction and Methodology:
I am currently in the final stages of putting together my preliminary auto-ethnography and argument for why Danish "transition care" constitutes conversion practices. Writing this article has lead me to reflect briefly on the necropolitics of the transexual body. Specifically with regards to our own epistemic authority upon our bodies, as well as how we are marked by society, and the consequences thereof. After these reflection I have decided to pen this essay to briefly put to words my thoughts surrounding how my body, and that of others like me, is a political subject.

Transsexuals are a unique case for necropolitical analysis, partially because our deaths hold an incredible amount of a potential "linguistic violence", a term coined by authors Lindsey B. Stewart and Thomas A. Delgado in their 2023 paper *Necropolitics and Trans Identities: Language Use as Cultural Violence*. However focusing entirely on the political potential of our deaths ignores a large part of the necropolitical position we hold within society, namely that of our disposition as a member of the "living dead" as outlined by philosopher Achille Mbembe in his exploration of necropolitics. It is important to reflect on the ways that the transsexual body is politically captured and marked by it's existence, not just in death but also in life. 

It is precisely because of this need to reflect on the political capturing of the transsexual body as a political device, captured by political discourse, that I find myself writing this essay. I believe that there is an epistemic gap in how the transsexual body is understood and analysed that requires filling. In attempting to fill this epistemic void, the essay will take the form of an omni directional analysis that incorporates a multifaced analysis of how different groups within society view the transsexual body. 

To define the groups that I will be talking about I will be utilizing the gender/sex schema outlined by Julia Serano in her book *Whipping Girl*. I will also be drawing from her work to strengthen my analytical framework on the representations of the transsexual body. I will also be drawing from my paper *Feminism and the Transfeminine* to examine how these categories separate the transsexual further from other categories in the outlined schema. I will then be taking the separate categories outlined by the schema and analysing them in relation to the ways that they interact with transsexual necropolitics. Ultimately I will bring together the separate layers of analysis into a rudimentary outline for how the transsexual body is necropolitically effected. 
## Defining the Schema of Transsexual Necropolitics:
### What Is a Transsexual?
In the 2007 book *Whipping Girl* Serano outlines what I have come to call the "tranny punnet square", a horribly accurate-yet-immature name for what I find to be a useful tool in deconstructing the cis/trans dichotomy into manageable concepts. This schema separates the two concepts of *gender* and *sex*, into separate categories, just as *cis* and *trans* are separate categories. The category of *gender* is the realm of the metaphysical, cognition, it is the identity separated from the body, aka, *"what you identify as"*. Sex however purely elides the metaphysical and roots itself in the material, in short it pertains to the bodies we inhabit. Other's might call this concept something like the "*biological reality*", but I choose to call it the material sex. 

In her original exploration of these two categories, Serano frames them within the epistemic framework of a cissexist society. That is to say that the framework is designed to work within the analytical bounds outlined by Simone De Beauvoir and refined by Monique Wittig. This happens through analysing the socially normalised framework of the societal"*default*" i.e.. the cisgender, cissexual, heterosexual, and the societal "*other*", i.e. anything that is outside the epistemological default in society.

The core outline of the framework I will be working on contains within it four separate categories, the first is what is defines in this framework as the *cissexual-cisgender*, the cissexual cisgender is the default, the individuals who find themselves situated within this category are those whose gender identity and material sex align with the default expectations placed upon them. The second category in this framework is the *cissexual-transgender*, this is someone whose gender identity is different from their socially assigned sex, but who does not have the desire to manipulate their material sex (this is separate from someone who does have the desire, but not the means to do so). The third category is the *cisgender-transsexual*, the people who reside within this category are people whose gender identity is aligned with their assigned gender, but who go through the steps to change their material sex, this category includes butches who opt for mastectomies, and HRT femboys. Finally there is the category of the *transgender-transsexual*, and individual whose gender identity is different from the expected, and who wishes to modify their material sex in some manner. 

Within the bounds of transsexual necropolitics, that is to say within the bounds of this article, I will be focusing on analysing the two latter categories that I mentioned. This is because both the cisgender-transsexual and the transgender-transsexual are transsexuals who aim to affect their material sexes. Their position in a cissexist society is a unique one, as they require material things to be able to manipulate their material sex, they are also uniquely positioned to deconstruct the "monomyth" of human sexual biology as two starkly opposed poles. It is due to these two factors that the transsexual is uniquely positioned within society, and the necropolitics that are involved with controlling a minority.
### Transsexual Bodies
It is impossible to talk about transsexual necropolitics without talking about the bodies they inhabit, as both their existence as transsexuals and the nature of necropolitical analysis requires it. Furthermore, at the core of discussing the body of the transsexual in a necropolitical context lies the question; what is it with the transsexual body that breaks with society to such a degree that it becomes politically necessary to control it?

In short, the reason the transsexual body is so repugnant to a cissexist society is that the very existence of it breaks down the idea that sex is both immutable and binary. The rection to this breaking of the binary and immutability of sex is what Serano describes as "Oppositional Sexism" in *Whipping Girl*. I do believe that the description of this phenomenon is an apt description for how the transsexual is treated in society. The very existence of the transsexual body stands as a material and literal counterargument to the ideological framework of cissexism. The transsexual achieves this opposition to cissexist society through desiring and enacting change upon their material sex. It is this change that crosses over the bounds set by society for what a body must look like, and therefore is also what is at the core of transsexual necropolitics, the choice to transition, and who is allowed to have that choice.

Just as important to understanding the relationship between transsexual bodies and necropolitics as the fact that they are manipulated to alter their material sex, is how it is that the transsexual body changes in the process of manipulating the material sex. If we understand the changes that transsexual bodies go through when exposed to exogenous hormones and surgeries, we gain a fuller image of how exactly these alterations break down the boundaries implemented by cissexist society.

For individuals who are transitioning using exogenous oestrogen and who desire to align their bodies with that which society commonly attributes to "feminine" bodies, the changes they go through align themselves more with the bodies of cissexuals whose bodies naturally produce oestrogen. They develop breasts, their fat redistributes, bones change, and certain organs change themselves. Some examples of these changes are that of the prostate, which redevelops into something closer to the skene's gland, and the glans, which becomes more sensitive, akin to that of the clitoris. Muscle development also changes, with muscle retention and muscle building decreasing. Conversely,  for people who are transitioning using exogenous testosterone and who desire to align their bodies to the social idea of "man"