\##A Brief Anthropological Study of The Cisfatalist



Every single transsexual has met the person I am going to write about today. The person in question is an individual, who either identifies as cis or trans, but refuses to even consider transition. Imagine a person who has figured out that they experience gender dysphoria, and have internalised that thought, but refuses to do anything to change their hormone profile. I call this person the cisfatalist.

The cisfatalist is a unique subset of the general human population. They often find themselves in a quantum superposition that situates between transsexual and cisgender. This superposition collapses upon observation like any other superposition, with the final result being either cisgender or trans depending on what is rhetorically convenient.

Ostensibly the cisfatalist navigates the world as a cisgendered individual due to the aforementioned convenience that comes with operating as a cisgender in the cissexist society they find themselves in. To navigate through society as an ostensibly cisgender individual the cisfatalist primarily refuses to take any form of exogenous cross sex hormones (commonly known as hormone replacement therapy (hrt)) and presents primarily as what aligns with the societal expectations of them.

The ease of navigation that being perceived as cisgender gives the cisfatalist is a powerful allure to the cisfatalist, it is because of this that the cisfatalist stays integrated within cisgender society, refusing to take action towards alleviating the dysphoria they experience. This performance of cisgenderness integrates the cisfatalist into cissexist society almost seamlessly, therefore collapsing the superstructure almost perfectly into them being perceived as cisgender.

In falling on this side of the superposition the cisfatalist severs all possibilities for changing their sexual characteristics in favour of maintaining the privileges and benefits that come with being perceived as cisgender within their environment. By severing this possibility within their psyche the cisfatalist adopts a worldview that transition is an impossible barrier with incredibly high requirements for passing through, however it is important to note that these barriers are entirely internal and constructed by the cisfatalist within their own psyche.

Due to the specifics of the internal barriers that the cisfatalist constructs as well as a steadfast desire to uphold their position within cissexist society, they will react negatively to any attempts from a transsexual individual who wishes to assist them in alleviating the pressure of dysphoria. These negative reactions oftentimes present themselves in the cisfatalist accusing the transsexual of “transmedicalism”.

This accusation fundamentally misunderstands the concept of transmedicalism, which is the belief that medical institutions are the only institutions that can be trusted with the administering of medicine to and the diagnosis of gender dysphoria within transgender individuals. In the mind of the cisfatalist the attempts from the transsexual to aid in the alleviation of dysphoria through exogenous hormones become intermingled with the idea that medical institutions are the final arbiters.
This intermingling of ideas within the cisfatalist is a false reality, constructed in order to maintain the  and leads to the transsexual becoming directly conflated with gatekeeping medical institutions, leading to the cisfatalist enveloping the oppressed within the oppressor

Earlier in this study I mentioned that the quantum superposition of the cisfatalist’s existence collapses into the category of transsexual on occasion. The frequency of this collapse is very rare but when it occurs it is incredibly of note. It happens as a reaction to the transsexual who attempts to aid the cisfatalist. In an attempt to rhetorically position themselves above the transsexual they make explicit their gender dysphoria.

By making explicit that they are transgender they attempt to strengthen their arguments for why they are unable to transition. This rhetorical manoeuvre is a complicated one as it uses the cisfatalist’s own gender dysphoria to give credence to their own mental barriers for transition. This rhetorical manoeuvre serves to strengthen the correlation the cisfatalist has constructed between the transsexual who actively fights transmedicalism and the medical institution that reinforces transmedicalism. I am as of yet unclear as to the exact internal logic of the cisfatalist that leads to them conflating the transsexual with the transmedicalist, but the mechanism is prevalent enough I can bring it into focus.

As one can see, by using the quantum superposition of transition as a tool, the cisfatalist ultimately ends up reinforcing cissexist society by redirecting ire away from unjust institutions towards the oppressed transsexual. It is because of this that the cisfatalist places themselves in opposition to the transsexual.

